What's up? I'm Marquez Brownley and I'm
here to break down one of my favorite
videos I've ever made.
>> This is I shrunk down to an M5 Apple
chip, which people are saying is the
best video you've ever made. We're going
to get into the details and then talk
about some of the stuff that I rarely
get to talk about anywhere else. It's
the one that took the most work and has
the most mindblowing things in it. So,
here I am. You know, the person you
know, I'm 6' 3. Okay, flex. We got it.
You're 6'.
>> We're in the same room you shot that
video. I'm wearing a headband that has
like ping pong balls. There's a camera
at 45 straight ahead 45 to record all of
my movements in 3D space like Matrix
style.
>> Exactly.
That's not actually on the table in
front of me. That's virtual. What take
is this? So, I have like an hour of
footage of me trying to deliver this. I
worked on the script for like 6 months.
This is the most important shot of the
whole video. Was Apple involved at all
in this? I got one email from someone at
Apple being like,
Marquez, you tweeted out that this video
was the best video you ever uploaded.
Why is that?
>> It's just the one that took the most
work and is the hardest to replicate and
has the most mindblowing things in it.
It was just the most fun. All right,
let's watch.
>> Isn't it crazy how we taught rocks to do
math?
>> Anyway, what is that opening line? That
has nothing to do with the video. No, it
does. It does. Okay. I worked on the
script for like six months. Okay. So,
I've been thinking about Apple silicon,
about Macs, about transistors, about
processors for 6 months while scripting
this video. And at the end of the day,
you get all the way down to the bottom
of the scale. And it's just silicon that
is doing billions of compute per second.
It's just rocks doing math.
Oh, and that's that was like I needed to
put that in the script somewhere, but I
had nowhere to put it. So, I just opened
the video with it. And hopefully by the
end, if there's rewatch, like replay
value, people hit that line again and
they're like, "That is kind of crazy."
Every year now, for a few years in a
row, Apple unveils the latest version of
their computer chips. And every year,
there's some slide or some graphic with
an impossibly big number of transistors
on one chip. Dear lord, like I'm having
like corporate PTSD looking at like this
like screen. This this to the average
consumer, it doesn't mean much. Like
these are just big numbers.
>> Exactly. What does this mean to a
regular person?
>> Nothing. No clue how to make that makes
sense.
>> And just to break it down for the
average and M5 chip from Apple, it's
just like a microchip that is super
super powerful.
>> Yep.
>> It's the brains of the computer
>> and it's made of a lot of transistors.
What if you could actually appreciate
just how densely packed everything has
to be and how small it has to get to fit
on a device that just goes in your
pocket? Well, that would require
changing the scale in the opposite
direction. We would have to shrink way
down. But with a little help, I'm up for
that challenge. By the way, no
generative AI is being used to create
this video. Just a whole lot of Blender.
>> Why? Why say that line like this is not
AI like you know why does that matter?
Yeah, I this is when we were making this
this was around the time of a lot of AI
generated videos and it's still
happening but them being more and more
prominent and more and more realistic
looking and I thought when people watch
this it's so different from a regular
MKBHD video they might actually just
think it's AI generated
>> and I had to at least put the disclaimer
in so that people could appreciate all
of the work that went into actually
bespoke making all of these creative and
scientifically accurate decisions about
scale and showing what we So that's that
orbit you just saw us do of the room.
We're in the room. You can see now
that's the shades were halfway down. The
red carpet is back here. Like all of
that orbit that we just did is because
we stood in the middle and did a 360
scan of the room to be able to get the
reflections on my helmet. See how it's
accurate to the the bar lights in the
top? Everything reflective on my helmet
is accurate to the actual room I'm in.
So that I just felt like I had to point
out so that people knew it wasn't AI.
This is real. I'm going to shrink down
by a hundred times which is a massive
amount. Two orders of magnitude. So here
I am you know the person you know I'm 6'
three. Okay. Flex. Okay. Marquez like
Okay. We got it. You're 6' three. I'm
scale. I may be standing on an apple box
right now. Scale. Somebody get the apple
box.
>> Okay. All right. Okay. Okay. You know
what, Marquez? We We get it. You're
tall. We get it.
>> We just needed people to know I'm 2 m
tall, but a little more than 2 m tall.
All right. Flex.
>> All right. Here we are. Now I'm the size
of a a single key on your keyboard. And
of course, it wouldn't be a good scale
video without a banana for scale. So, we
got that, too. But, oh my god. Well,
well, first of all, this is being done
in collaboration with Epic Space Man.
>> Yes. Amazing.
>> Cannot shout out Toby enough. Super
talented. He's the one with all the
blender skill to make this come to life.
If you go watch any of his videos,
you've seen this style before. It's
suit, the super crazy scale of the
universe stuff. It's incredible. What
what are you doing to deliver this
performance? Are you still standing like
here? Like we're in the same room you
shot that video. Yes. Are you just
speaking to camera and then Toby is like
doing all the magic and putting you into
space suit? Like how do you deliver this
performance? It's a really good
collaboration. So Tobyy's doing the
blender work. What we've done to give me
this full body accurate model is I'm
standing roughly here. There's a camera
at 45, camera at straight ahead, 45
half, 45 back, completely surrounding me
with cameras to record all of my
movements in 3D space, like Matrix style
essentially. And I'm wearing a bunch of
different trackers to make sure that
they can track through multiple cameras
in 3D space. All of my gesturing is
specifically in roughly this like two-
foot box around my feet. So, I'm walking
around in like a, you know, rough way
where you can see I'm like pointing at
the ground below me and all of this can
translate through so that when this gets
imported into Blender, doesn't take too
much correction. All of this is now a
virtual Marquez that is 100% accurate at
this size. Okay, like I can walk around
on the keyboard deck of this MacBook
Pro, which is now the size of an
apartment building, and I can already
start to see and appreciate how complex
all these components already are. And
it's fun now that we have this model of
me in 3D space. Like we can fully
reconstruct me anywhere and virtually
put the camera anywhere. So it can be
gliding in from above me. It can be
behind me. It can be orbit. It can do
whatever we want.
>> Oh, so this is you walking and these are
your arms moving?
>> Yes.
>> I was thinking watching it just as your
face, but this is
>> Yeah. The whole body.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. So head to toe, I'm covered with
all these angles. So I am doing all
these gestures and I'm pointing at Okay.
When I look at the RAM like down
underneath me, that's me sort of acting
and looking at where the RAM would be.
>> That's so cool. Yeah. The M5 chip should
be right over here powering the whole
thing. Now, this is the size of a single
transistor
in 1948.
This is pretty insane. Like, we've
clearly made a lot of progress in the
last 75 years. You don't need me to tell
you that. But this already puts it into
perspective like how far we've come
since a computer was the size of a room.
But because we do have all these
brilliant minds focused on computers, we
have things like Moore's law, which I'm
sure you've heard of. It says that the
number of transistors on a microchip
roughly doubles every 2 years.
Okay. Wow. Welcome to the scale of
micrometers. I am now 200 micrometers
tall, which makes me about twice as tall
as this human hair.
>> Isn't it amazing how those numbers don't
mean much to me, but seeing you at this
scale, I'm starting to understand and
appreciate it.
>> People talk a lot about how thick a hair
is, but seeing all of it at once. This
is why I love scale the universe videos,
like maintaining the context of the
previous scale.
>> I love it.
>> Yeah. And this like texture, I mean,
it's just incredible. This is already
the size of some of the tiniest stuff
we're able to see using our own eyes.
But yeah, a typical sheet of paper is
about 100 micrometers thick. Looks
pretty tall to me. A glass screen
protector, too. Thicker than a lot of
people realize.
>> Now, see this?
>> Yeah.
>> I have a glass D brand screen protector
on my phone. You see how thin that
looks?
>> Just sitting on top of the glass.
>> So now, can you picture a person down
there who's the same height as the glass
screen protector? That's where we're at.
and we're just getting started. It's
crazy. We'll get right back to it. But
first, I want to thank Feastables for
sponsoring this video and sending me a
bunch of their peanut butter cups, which
have gotten me through many late nights
of editing, including this video and
many of the others that we've been
posting on this channel. It's become one
of my favorite snacks because each cup
is filled with the creamiest peanut
butter like you'd find in a jar. And
they wrap it in this milk chocolate
shell, which is always made with real
chocolate. And in spending a lot of time
with Jimmy and the Feastables team, I
know they also prioritize simple, high
quality ingredients, and their cocoa is
ethically sourced, which supports their
mission to end child labor in the cocoa
industry. So, go check out and support
Feastables Peanut Butter Cups at your
local Walmart, Target, and 7-Eleven. And
now back to the video. It's crazy.
>> But what's crazy is that first
transistor I told you about is now the
height of the tallest building in the
world compared to me. It's wild.
All right, another 100x shrink. So now
it's getting ridiculous. I am now two
micrometers tall. At this point, I'm
actually literally invisible to the
human eye, which kind of feels like a
superpower. But I'll also need to be
very careful because a human hair is
like a cliff the size of a 25story
building. Somehow by the 1980s, humans
have found a way to consistently
manufacture functional electronics at
this size.
>> You're delivering this so naturally to
camera. What take is this?
>> Okay, so this whole thing I have like an
hour of footage of me trying to deliver
this really. There is a lot of me trying
to memorize the line, handing the phone
back to Andrew, delivering it, getting
95% of the way there, messing up one
word, and being like, I got to I got to
read that again. I got to get this
exactly right, cuz there's so many facts
and things. We even did a little bit of
ADR after because I didn't get it
exactly perfect. But yes, this is uh a
memorization exercise, I would say.
>> But that's encouraging to know that
somebody as smooth as you is not getting
on his first take.
>> It is a learned skill. I feel like
there's other YouTubers who are I watch
their videos too and I think about that.
Tom Scott is one. Vsauce videos from
back in the day. Cleo Abrams really good
at this. They're like factdense videos
that they just deliver and that that is
a really tough skill to learn.
>> Yeah, we have to shrink down 100x yet
again. Damn.
Okay. 20 nanm.
I am now 20 nanmters tall. So, an
individual transistor from a brand new
2026 M5 MacBook Pro is about the size of
a garage for me. Did Apple reach out at
all about this? Like you like showing
their chip and like how powerful it is
compared to like the past like I mean
not to call this like a promot but it it
is promoting like the technology in such
a good way. Was Apple involved at all in
this video?
>> Apple was not involved at all. I think I
got one email from someone at Apple
being like, "Nice job." But not
confirming, you know, any of the the the
schematics or anything like that. But
theoretically, this could be an Intel
chip. This could be a GPU, this could be
anything else with a 3 nmter node, this
could be a phone. But we I cho I chose
to center it around the M5 chip because
that was my goal of of anchoring this
video around a current event in tech.
>> Oh, I see. So, I'd be making my normal
current events tech videos and then this
would drop and it would be like, "How
did you make this video in time for
this?"
>> But you were preempting it.
>> Months.
>> Months knowing that at some point
they're going to come with a new updated
chip
>> with the M5. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Smart.
>> Hey, this is Epic Spaceman.
>> One of my favorite creators and of
course a massive help with this video.
By the way, how cool is it that you guys
are nowhere near each other? Like he's
in a totally different continent. Like
where where's Epic Space Man? Where's
Toby? UK based. Yeah. We've never been
in the same room. Only on on Zoom calls.
>> Yeah. And to make this epic of a collab,
like that is fascinating.
>> It is fun. Again, through the power of
actual like Blender and talent versus
just AI generating something to
hopefully get it close to right. This is
scientifically accurate.
>> That's amazing. So yeah, the best way
for my brain to really appreciate all of
this has been to visualize this scale
from the tiniest 3 nanometer transistors
we have in computers today at the scale
of DNA and individual atoms
>> all the way to the micrometer scale with
the computers of the 2000s and '9s and
80s.
>> So this is the hero shot I think of the
whole video. We've been cutting in and
out, obviously showing the scale this
whole time, but having a single shot
that zooms.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh over and over and over at all these
layers so you can appreciate how far
we've gone is why I love scale of the
universe videos. And I was so excited
for this shot of this video.
>> Yeah. And it keeps getting better and
better here.
>> Yeah. When you're doing the slow zoom
out from the tiny level and then you
want to show the large level, you have
to speed up your zoom and then speed up
your zoom again in physical space. So,
his virtual camera is doing one of these
and then going really fast. It's a lot
of work. It's amazing.
>> Humanity has been so motivated for so
many years to get this stuff down to
such a ridiculously small scale that it
makes a grain of rice look like a
massive object.
>> Wow.
>> And yet, it keeps going and going all
the way back to the earliest transistors
the size of a deck of cards.
You know something else I've realized
though? Even though we've seen now all
of the scale and how tiny things can
get,
>> that sound design,
I feel like I can feel you need a slow
riser for the hero shot.
>> So good.
>> Yeah. Yeah, let's crush that.
>> Sometimes it can still be hard to keep
all the nanometers and pometers sorted
and and really comprehend it all. And
sometimes it's actually easier to make
things bigger rather than smaller. So
let's try this. The world's first
electronic computer is often credited as
the ENIAC. They finished it in 1946 and
they had light bulbsized vacuum tubes
called triodes. And of course, that
computer was the size of a whole room.
But if we still made computers like this
with transistors that big, how big do
you think the iPhone would need to be to
fit the 19 billion transistors that it
has today?
Think about it. Maybe the size of a city
block or what about the size of the
entirety of Central Park?
>> Keep in mind, you need to fit all
billions of transistors. Wouldn't it be
crazy if we carry around the equivalent
technology of a phone the size of the
city of Manhattan? So, yeah, this was if
if you took all of the 19 billion
transistors in the iPhone and made them
all the same size as the light bulb
vacuum tubes from the Eniac, how big
would the iPhone have to be?
>> Yeah, that's how far we've come.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. And I love how you go in, then you
we're going out. Just showing
>> way the slow zoom is so good. So good.
>> Well, the reality is these are all still
too small. Your phone with the
technology from 80 years ago would need
to be the size of the state of New
Jersey to fit them all.
>> Oh my god.
>> This progression of technology has given
us a computer the size of a US state 270
mi long and shrunk it down to fit in our
pockets.
It's a bar.
>> I'll even do you one better. Okay. If a
modern transistor was roughly the size
of a Toyota Prius, then that iPhone that
fits them all would be about the size of
planet Earth. So hopefully that gives
you an idea of just how ridiculously
small individual transistors have
gotten. It's a funual beginning of
computers.
>> Really fun visual. These numbers are
crazy and sometimes hard to appreciate
when you just see them flashed for 2
seconds on a keynote slide. So hopefully
this gives you a better idea. The crazy
part is that in the scale of the cosmos,
it's still almost nothing. Like our
Milky Way alone, you might know, has
over
>> 100 billion stars with 100 billion
>> and there's hundreds of billions of
galaxies
>> in our observable universe.
>> So it's all pretty crazy. Well, dude,
it's cool to see you like just adapting
and and and pushing the boundaries in
these different styles of videos over
the years. I appreciate you breaking it
down.
>> It's fun. No problem.
>> Yeah. Thank you, Marcus. Yeah.